README.md, before:

# BlissHairStudio Website 💝

A beautiful, modern, and mobile-first website for BlissHairStudio - Premium hair care products and styling services.

## Features ✨

### Design
- **Mobile-First Responsive Design** - Perfect for all devices, optimized for mobile users
- **Modern & Minimalistic** - Clean, elegant design with smooth animations
- **Color Scheme** - Inspired by the BlissHairStudio logo (soft pinks and rose tones)
- **Beautiful Typography** - Playfair Display for headings, Poppins for body text

### Functionality
- **Smooth Navigation** - Fixed navbar with smooth scroll and mobile menu
- **Product Showcase** - Sample product with "Add to Cart" functionality
- **Shopping Cart** - Interactive cart with item counter
- **Contact Form** - Easy communication with validation
- **Newsletter Signup** - Email subscription functionality
- **Testimonials** - Customer reviews section
- **Services Display** - Showcase of all offered services
- **SEO Optimized** - Complete meta tags, schema markup, and semantic HTML

### Technical Features
- **Performance Optimized** - Fast loading, minimal dependencies
- **Accessible** - WCAG compliant with keyboard navigation
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Works without JavaScript
- **Cross-Browser Compatible** - Tested on all major browsers
- **Offline Detection** - Notifies users when offline

## File Structure

```
blisshairstudio/
├── index.html          # Main HTML file with semantic markup
├── styles.css          # Complete responsive CSS with mobile-first approach
├── script.js           # Interactive JavaScript features
├── logo.webp           # BlissHairStudio logo
└── README.md           # This file
```

## How to Use 🚀

### Basic Setup
1. Simply open `index.html` in any modern web browser
2. No build process or dependencies required!
3. Works offline after first load

### For Development
1. Use a local server for best experience:
   ```bash
   # Using Python
   python -m http.server 8000
   
   # Using Node.js (http-server)
   npx http-server
   
   # Using VS Code Live Server extension
   Right-click index.html → "Open with Live Server"
   ```

2. Open in browser: `http://localhost:8000`

## Adding Products 🛍️

To add more products, find the sample product in `index.html` and duplicate the structure:

```html
<article class="product-card" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Product">
    <div class="product-badge">New</div>
    <div class="product-image">
        <!-- Add your product image here -->
        <img src="path-to-image.jpg" alt="Product Name" itemprop="image">
    </div>
    <div class="product-info">
        <h3 class="product-title" itemprop="name">Your Product Name</h3>
        <p class="product-description" itemprop="description">Your product description</p>
        <div class="product-details">
            <span class="product-price" itemprop="offers" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Offer">
                <meta itemprop="priceCurrency" content="GBP">
                <span itemprop="price">£XX.XX</span>
            </span>
            <button class="btn btn-add-to-cart">Add to Cart</button>
        </div>
    </div>
</article>
```

## Customization 🎨

### Colors
All colors are defined as CSS variables in `styles.css`:

```css
:root {
    --primary-color: #E8B4B8;      /* Main pink */
    --primary-dark: #d89ca1;       /* Darker pink */
    --primary-light: #f5d6d9;      /* Lighter pink */
    --secondary-color: #C89FA5;    /* Secondary rose */
    --accent-color: #f4c7cc;       /* Accent pink */
}
```

### Content
- **Business Info**: Update contact details in the Contact section
- **Services**: Modify the Services section with your actual offerings
- **About Text**: Personalize the About section
- **Social Media**: Update social media links in the footer

## SEO Features 🔍

- Complete meta tags for search engines
- Open Graph tags for social media sharing
- Schema.org structured data for products
- Semantic HTML5 markup
- Descriptive alt texts (add to product images)
- Fast loading speed
- Mobile-friendly (Google ranking factor)

## Browser Support 🌐

- Chrome (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)
- Edge (latest)
- Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

## Performance 📊

- **No external dependencies** except Google Fonts
- **Lightweight** - Total size under 100KB
- **Fast loading** - Optimized CSS and JavaScript
- **Lazy loading** support for images

## Future Enhancements 💡

To make this a fully functional e-commerce site, consider adding:

1. **Backend Integration**
   - Connect contact form to email service (EmailJS, Formspree, or custom backend)
   - Implement real shopping cart with local storage or database
   - Add product management system

2. **Payment Integration**
   - Stripe, PayPal, or Square for payments
   - Checkout page with order summary
   - Order confirmation emails

3. **Additional Features**
   - Product filtering and search
   - Customer accounts and order history
   - Product reviews and ratings
   - Image gallery for products
   - Blog section for hair care tips

4. **Analytics**
   - Google Analytics integration
   - Conversion tracking
   - User behavior analysis

## Accessibility ♿

- ARIA labels for interactive elements
- Keyboard navigation support
- Focus trap in mobile menu
- Color contrast meeting WCAG AA standards
- Reduced motion support for animations

## License

This website was created for BlissHairStudio. All rights reserved.

## Support

For questions or customization requests, contact the developer.

---

Made with 💝 for BlissHairStudio

## Deployment

This project builds with Vite and is deployed to a VPS via SCP/SSH. The repository includes a `deploy.ps1` PowerShell helper that will build, package, upload and extract the site on the server (it creates a backup of the current site before extracting).

From Windows (PowerShell):

1. Ensure Node 18+ and npm are installed.
2. Install dependencies (if needed): `npm install`
3. Run the deploy script (will run the build and upload):

```powershell
# From the project root
.\deploy.ps1
```

Manual (SCP) alternative:

1. Build the project:

```powershell
npm run build
Compress-Archive -Path .\dist\* -DestinationPath .\dist.zip -Force
```

2. Upload and extract on the VPS (replace `root@IP` and `/var/www/site`):

```powershell
scp .\dist.zip root@your.vps.ip:/tmp/dist.zip
ssh root@your.vps.ip "sudo unzip -o /tmp/dist.zip -d /var/www/blisshairstudio && sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/blisshairstudio && sudo chmod -R 755 /var/www/blisshairstudio && rm -f /tmp/dist.zip"
```

Notes:
- The `deploy.ps1` currently targets `root@213.171.195.105:/var/www/blisshairstudio` — edit it if you need a different server or path.
- The script makes a backup of the previous site at `/var/www/blisshairstudio-backup-YYYY_MM_DD_HHMMSS`.
- If your VPS uses a different user (not `root`), adjust the `deploy.ps1` or use `sudo` as necessary on the remote commands.

Commit message:

docs: add VPS run instructions and DNS notes

README.md, after:

# BlissHairStudio Website 💝

A beautiful, modern, and mobile-first website for BlissHairStudio - Premium hair care products and styling services.

## Features ✨

### Design
- **Mobile-First Responsive Design** - Perfect for all devices, optimized for mobile users
- **Modern & Minimalistic** - Clean, elegant design with smooth animations
- **Color Scheme** - Inspired by the BlissHairStudio logo (soft pinks and rose tones)
- **Beautiful Typography** - Playfair Display for headings, Poppins for body text

### Functionality
- **Smooth Navigation** - Fixed navbar with smooth scroll and mobile menu
- **Product Showcase** - Sample product with "Add to Cart" functionality
- **Shopping Cart** - Interactive cart with item counter
- **Contact Form** - Easy communication with validation
- **Newsletter Signup** - Email subscription functionality
- **Testimonials** - Customer reviews section
- **Services Display** - Showcase of all offered services
- **SEO Optimized** - Complete meta tags, schema markup, and semantic HTML

### Technical Features
- **Performance Optimized** - Fast loading, minimal dependencies
- **Accessible** - WCAG compliant with keyboard navigation
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Works without JavaScript
- **Cross-Browser Compatible** - Tested on all major browsers
- **Offline Detection** - Notifies users when offline

## File Structure

```
blisshairstudio/
├── index.html          # Main HTML file with semantic markup
├── styles.css          # Complete responsive CSS with mobile-first approach
├── script.js           # Interactive JavaScript features
├── logo.webp           # BlissHairStudio logo
└── README.md           # This file
```

## How to Use 🚀

### Basic Setup
1. Simply open `index.html` in any modern web browser
2. No build process or dependencies required!
3. Works offline after first load

### For Development
1. Use a local server for best experience:
   ```bash
   # Using Python
   python -m http.server 8000
   
   # Using Node.js (http-server)
   npx http-server
   
   # Using VS Code Live Server extension
   Right-click index.html → "Open with Live Server"
   ```

2. Open in browser: `http://localhost:8000`

## Adding Products 🛍️

To add more products, find the sample product in `index.html` and duplicate the structure:

```html
<article class="product-card" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Product">
    <div class="product-badge">New</div>
    <div class="product-image">
        <!-- Add your product image here -->
        <img src="path-to-image.jpg" alt="Product Name" itemprop="image">

## VPS: Run-once instructions (fresh Ubuntu/Debian VPS)

1. SSH into the VPS as root or a sudo-capable user.
2. Ensure your domain's A record points to the VPS public IP and that ports 80 and 443 are accessible.
3. Clone the repo somewhere (or transfer this repo):

```bash
git clone https://github.com/scros18/blisshairstudio.git /opt/blisshairstudio
cd /opt/blisshairstudio
```

4. Edit `deploy_vps.sh` and set `DOMAIN` and `EMAIL` near the top to your domain and contact email.
5. Run the script as root (it will install Node.js, nginx, certbot, build the site and request SSL):

```bash
sudo bash deploy_vps.sh
```

DNS & firewall notes:
- Make sure an A record exists for your domain pointing to the VPS IP before running the script so Certbot can complete the HTTP challenge.
- If the VPS has ufw enabled, allow http/https:

```bash
sudo ufw allow 80/tcp
sudo ufw allow 443/tcp
```

That's it — the script is designed to be idempotent, so re-running it will update the site and renew the certificate if needed.
        <p class="product-description" itemprop="description">Your product description</p>
        <div class="product-details">
            <span class="product-price" itemprop="offers" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Offer">
                <meta itemprop="priceCurrency" content="GBP">
                <span itemprop="price">£XX.XX</span>
            </span>
            <button class="btn btn-add-to-cart">Add to Cart</button>
        </div>
    </div>
</article>
```

## Customization 🎨

### Colors
All colors are defined as CSS variables in `styles.css`:

```css
:root {
    --primary-color: #E8B4B8;      /* Main pink */
    --primary-dark: #d89ca1;       /* Darker pink */
    --primary-light: #f5d6d9;      /* Lighter pink */
    --secondary-color: #C89FA5;    /* Secondary rose */
    --accent-color: #f4c7cc;       /* Accent pink */
}
```

### Content
- **Business Info**: Update contact details in the Contact section
- **Services**: Modify the Services section with your actual offerings
- **About Text**: Personalize the About section
- **Social Media**: Update social media links in the footer

## SEO Features 🔍

- Complete meta tags for search engines
- Open Graph tags for social media sharing
- Schema.org structured data for products
- Semantic HTML5 markup
- Descriptive alt texts (add to product images)
- Fast loading speed
- Mobile-friendly (Google ranking factor)

## Browser Support 🌐

- Chrome (latest)
- Firefox (latest)
- Safari (latest)
- Edge (latest)
- Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

## Performance 📊

- **No external dependencies** except Google Fonts
- **Lightweight** - Total size under 100KB
- **Fast loading** - Optimized CSS and JavaScript
- **Lazy loading** support for images

## Future Enhancements 💡

To make this a fully functional e-commerce site, consider adding:

1. **Backend Integration**
   - Connect contact form to email service (EmailJS, Formspree, or custom backend)
   - Implement real shopping cart with local storage or database
   - Add product management system

2. **Payment Integration**
   - Stripe, PayPal, or Square for payments
   - Checkout page with order summary
   - Order confirmation emails

3. **Additional Features**
   - Product filtering and search
   - Customer accounts and order history
   - Product reviews and ratings
   - Image gallery for products
   - Blog section for hair care tips

4. **Analytics**
   - Google Analytics integration
   - Conversion tracking
   - User behavior analysis

## Accessibility ♿

- ARIA labels for interactive elements
- Keyboard navigation support
- Focus trap in mobile menu
- Color contrast meeting WCAG AA standards
- Reduced motion support for animations

## License

This website was created for BlissHairStudio. All rights reserved.

## Support

For questions or customization requests, contact the developer.

---

Made with 💝 for BlissHairStudio

## Deployment

This project builds with Vite and is deployed to a VPS via SCP/SSH. The repository includes a `deploy.ps1` PowerShell helper that will build, package, upload and extract the site on the server (it creates a backup of the current site before extracting).

From Windows (PowerShell):

1. Ensure Node 18+ and npm are installed.
2. Install dependencies (if needed): `npm install`
3. Run the deploy script (will run the build and upload):

```powershell
# From the project root
.\deploy.ps1
```

Manual (SCP) alternative:

1. Build the project:

```powershell
npm run build
Compress-Archive -Path .\dist\* -DestinationPath .\dist.zip -Force
```

2. Upload and extract on the VPS (replace `root@IP` and `/var/www/site`):

```powershell
scp .\dist.zip root@your.vps.ip:/tmp/dist.zip
ssh root@your.vps.ip "sudo unzip -o /tmp/dist.zip -d /var/www/blisshairstudio && sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/blisshairstudio && sudo chmod -R 755 /var/www/blisshairstudio && rm -f /tmp/dist.zip"
```

Notes:
- The `deploy.ps1` currently targets `root@213.171.195.105:/var/www/blisshairstudio` — edit it if you need a different server or path.
- The script makes a backup of the previous site at `/var/www/blisshairstudio-backup-YYYY_MM_DD_HHMMSS`.
- If your VPS uses a different user (not `root`), adjust the `deploy.ps1` or use `sudo` as necessary on the remote commands.
